First tutorial (#5136)
keystonejs/keystone: docs-next/pages/tutorials/getting-started-with-create-keystone-next-app/index.mdx

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Page';
import Image from 'next/image';
import Link from 'next/link';

<img
  src={require('./assets/cover.svg')}
  alt="A terminal with the output of create-keystone-next-app"
  style={{
    margin: '0 -1rem 2rem -1rem',
    width: 'calc(100% + 2rem)',
    maxWidth: 'none',
  }}
/>

> # Getting started with `create-keystone-next-app`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Getting started
```

Or maybe "Getting started with Keystone"?

[`create-keystone-next-app`](https://github.com/keystonejs/create-keystone-next-app) is a CLI app that makes it easier for you to get started with Keystone.
It will generate a couple files for you and install all the dependencies you need to run the AdminUI and start using the GraphQL API.

## Quick Start

```sh
yarn create keystone-next-app
cd my-app
yarn dev
```

## Installing your own Keystone instance

Open your preferred shell and make sure you are in the folder you would like to create your new project in.
`create-keystone-next-app` will generate a new folder with your new Keystone files in it.

### Yarn

Use [`yarn create`](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/create/):

```sh
cd your/path/
yarn create keystone-next-app
```

### npm

Use [`npm init`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-init):

```sh
npm init keystone-next-app
```

_(`npm init <initializer>` is available in npm 6+)_

### npx

Use npms [`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npx):

```sh
cd your/path/
npx create-keystone-next-app
```

_(npx comes with npm 5.2+)_

> The cli will ask you to name your new app and for a way to connect to your database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CLI will ask you to name your new app and for a way to connect to your database.
```

Make sure you have your connection url ready for your database like e.g. `postgres://localhost/my-app` or `postgres://username@localhost/my-app`.

_(If you run into trouble with the database, check out this guide on [Database Setup](https://www.keystonejs.com/quick-start/adapters))_

## Opening your shiny new AdminUI

After you ran `create-keystone-next-app` you can now `cd` into the folder that was created for you and run Keystone.

```sh
cd my-app
yarn dev
```

> This will generate the AdminUI pages via [NextJs](https://nextjs.org/) on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

Reviewer: Always Admin UI, not AdminUI.

```suggestion
This will generate the Admin UI pages via [NextJs](https://nextjs.org/) on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).
```

<Image
  src={require('./assets/welcome-screen.png')}
  alt="The welcome screen giving you the ability the create a new user to log into the AdminUI"
  width={1328}
  height={1020}
/>

> When you visit the AdminUI for the first time you will be presented with a handy screen that asked you to create a user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you visit the Admin UI for the first time you will be presented with a handy screen that asked you to create a user.
```

Go ahead and create your first user.

<Image
  src={require('./assets/adminui.png')}
  alt="The AdminUI of Keystone showing the two lists: User and Posts"
  width={1886}
  height={630}
/>

> Now you can see your new Keystone AdminUI that comes with two visible lists and a bunch of files that were generated for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can see your new Keystone Admin UI that comes with two visible lists and a bunch of files that were generated for you.
```

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Page';
import Image from 'next/image';
import Link from 'next/link';

<img
  src={require('./assets/cover.svg')}
  alt="A terminal with the output of create-keystone-next-app"
  style={{
    margin: '0 -1rem 2rem -1rem',
    width: 'calc(100% + 2rem)',
    maxWidth: 'none',
  }}
/>

# Getting started with `create-keystone-next-app`

[`create-keystone-next-app`](https://github.com/keystonejs/create-keystone-next-app) is a CLI app that makes it easier for you to get started with Keystone.

> It will generate a couple files for you and install all the dependencies you need to run the AdminUI and start using the GraphQL API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will generate a couple of files for you and install all the dependencies you need to run the Admin UI and start using the GraphQL API.
```

## Quick Start

```sh
yarn create keystone-next-app
cd my-app
yarn dev
```

## Installing your own Keystone instance

Open your preferred shell and make sure you are in the folder you would like to create your new project in.
`create-keystone-next-app` will generate a new folder with your new Keystone files in it.

### Yarn

Use [`yarn create`](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/create/):

```sh
cd your/path/
yarn create keystone-next-app
```

### npm

Use [`npm init`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-init):

```sh

> npm init keystone-next-app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd your/path/
npm init keystone-next-app
```

```

_(`npm init <initializer>` is available in npm 6+)_

### npx

> Use npms [`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npx):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use npm's [`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npx):
```

```sh
cd your/path/
npx create-keystone-next-app
```

_(npx comes with npm 5.2+)_

The CLI will ask you to name your new app and for a way to connect to your database.

> Make sure you have your connection url ready for your database like e.g. `postgres://localhost/my-app` or `postgres://username:password@localhost/my-app`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have your connection URL ready for your database, e.g. `postgres://localhost/my-app` or `postgres://username:password@localhost/my-app`.
```

_(If you run into trouble with the database, check out this guide on [Database Setup](https://www.keystonejs.com/quick-start/adapters))_

> ## Opening your shiny new AdminUI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Opening your shiny new Admin UI
```
I'm not a big fan of this style of language, it makes it all a bit... I dunno. I would go with `Opening the Admin UI` or something less cutesy. Not gonna block on that though.

<Image
  src={require('./assets/adminui.png')}
  alt="The AdminUI of Keystone showing the two lists: User and Posts"
  width={1954}
  height={764}
/>

> After you ran `create-keystone-next-app` you can now `cd` into the folder that was created for you and run Keystone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running `create-keystone-next-app` you can now `cd` into the folder that was created for you and start Keystone.
```

```sh
cd my-app
yarn dev
```

> This will generate the Admin UI pages via [NextJs](https://nextjs.org/) on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will generate the Admin UI pages via [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).
```

<Image
  src={require('./assets/welcome-screen.png')}
  alt="The welcome screen giving you the ability the create a new user to log into the AdminUI"
  width={1328}
  height={1020}
/>

> When you visit the Admin UI for the first time you will be presented with a handy screen that asked you to create a user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you visit the Admin UI for the first time you will be presented with a screen that asked you to create a user.
```

Author: On your earlier point about cute language I think the tutorial space will need to allow for personality as we will have other people contributing content. We won't be able to make everyone sound the same and I would argue we shouldn't?

Go ahead and create your first user.

> 
> Now you can see your new Keystone Admin UI that comes with two visible lists and a bunch of files that were generated for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The email address and password will be used as the login details when you next need to login to the Admin UI.

Once you've created the user you can see your new Keystone Admin UI that comes with two visible lists.
You can use the Admin UI to explore and interact with the data in your system.
```

## Output

We now have a couple files in the newly generated folder. The two most important once you want to get into are `keystone.ts` and `schema.ts`.

```sh
.

> ├── keystone.ts   # The main entry file for keystone
> ├── node_modules  # Your dependencies
> ├── package.json  # Your package.json with three scripts prepared for you
> ├── schema.ts     # The schema of our data
> ├── tsconfig.json # Your typescript config
> └── yarn.lock     # An finally your yarn lock file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
├── keystone.ts   # The main entry file for Keystone
├── node_modules  # Your dependencies
├── package.json  # Your package.json with three scripts prepared for you
├── schema.ts     # The schema of your data
├── tsconfig.json # Your typescript config
└── yarn.lock     # And finally your yarn lock file
```

```

## Scripts

The files come with three npm scripts you can run locally.

`dev`

> - The `start` script will run Keystone in production mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `start` script will run Keystone in production mode.
```

This needs to be fixed.

Author: I'm not sure what needs fixing? The diff above seems to be empty?

Author: Oh I see now... it's the dev script

### npx

Use npm's [`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npx):

```sh
cd your/path/
npx create-keystone-next-app
```

_(npx comes with npm 5.2+)_

The CLI will ask you to name your new app and for a way to connect to your database.
Make sure you have your connection URL ready for your database, e.g. `postgres://localhost/my-app` or `postgres://username:password@localhost/my-app`.

_(If you run into trouble with the database, check out this guide on [Database Setup](https://www.keystonejs.com/quick-start/adapters))_

## Opening your shiny new Admin UI

<Image
  src={require('./assets/adminui.png')}
  alt="The AdminUI of Keystone showing the two lists: User and Posts"
  width={1954}
  height={764}
/>

After running `create-keystone-next-app` you can now `cd` into the folder that was created for you and start Keystone.

```sh
cd my-app
yarn dev
```

This will generate the Admin UI pages via [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

<Image
  src={require('./assets/welcome-screen.png')}
  alt="The welcome screen giving you the ability the create a new user to log into the AdminUI"
  width={1328}
  height={1020}
/>

> When you visit the Admin UI for the first time you will be presented with a handy screen that asked you to create a user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you visit the Admin UI for the first time you will be presented with a handy screen that asks you to create a user.
```

Go ahead and create your first user.
The email address and password will be used as the login details when you next need to login to the Admin UI.

Once you've created the user you can see your new Keystone Admin UI that comes with two visible lists.
You can use the Admin UI to explore and interact with the data in your system.

## Output

> We now have a couple files in the newly generated folder. The two most important once you want to get into are `keystone.ts` and `schema.ts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now have some files in the newly generated folder. The two most important once you want to get into are `keystone.ts` and `schema.ts`.
```

```sh
.
├── keystone.ts   # The main entry file for Keystone
├── node_modules  # Your dependencies
├── package.json  # Your package.json with three scripts prepared for you
├── schema.ts     # The schema of your data
├── tsconfig.json # Your typescript config
└── yarn.lock     # And finally your yarn lock file
```

## Scripts

The files come with three npm scripts you can run locally.

`dev`

- The `dev` script will run Keystone in development mode.
  Jump over to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to see your Admin UI.

`build`

- The `build` script will build the project and is required to be run before `start`.

`start`

- The `start` script will run Keystone in production mode.

## Where to next?

> - Read more about the Keystone config inside `keystone.ts` over at <Link href="/apis/config" passHref><a>System Configuration API</a></Link>
> - Read more about how you create a database schema for Keystone over at <Link href="/apis/schema" passHref><a>Schema API</a></Link>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read more about the Keystone config inside `keystone.ts` over at [System Configuration API](/apis/config).
- Read more about how you create a database schema for Keystone over at [Schema API](/apis/schema).
```
